1a)Write a shell that takes a valid directory name as an	argument and recursively descend all the subdirectories, finds the maximum length of any file in that hierarchy and writes this maximum value to the standard output.
b) Write a shell script that accepts a path name createsall the components in that path name as directories. For example, if the script is named mpc, then command mpc a/b/c/d should create directories a, a/b, a/b/c, a/b/c/d.

2	a)Write a shell script that accepts two file names asarguments, checks if the permissions for these files areidentical and if the permission are identical, output common permission and otherwise output each file name
followed by its permissions.
b)Write a shell script which accepts valid log in names as arguments and prints their corresponding home directories, if no arguments are specified, print a suitable error message.

3	a)Write shell script to implement terminal locking (similar to the lock command). It should prompt the user for a password. After accepting the password entered by the user, it must prompt again for the the matching password as confirmation and if match occurs, it must lock lock the keyword until a matching password is entered again by the user, Note that the script must be written to disregard BREAK, control-D. No time limit need beimplemented for the lock duration.
b) Create a script file called file-properties that reads a file name entered and outputs it properties.

4	a)Write a shell script that accept one or more filenames as argument and convert all of them	to uppercase, provided they exist in current directory.
	b)Write a shell script that displays all the links to a file specified as the first argument to the script. The
	second argument, which is optional, can be used to specif in	which the	search is to begin. If this second argument is not present, the search is to begin in current working directory. In either case, the starting directory as well as all its subdirectories at all levels must be searched. The script need no include any error	checking.
5	a. Write a shell script that accepts as filename as argument and display its creation time	if	file exist and if it does not send output error message.
b. Write a shell script to display the calendar for current month with current date	replaced by * or ** depending on whether the date has one digit or two digits.

6	a)Write a shell script to find a file/s that matches a pattern given as command line argument in the home directory, display the contents of the file and copy the
file into the directory ~/mydir
	b) Write a shell script to list all the files in a directory whose filename is at least 10 characters. (use
expr command to check the length)
7	a)Write a shell script that gets executed displays the message either “Good Morning” or “Good Afternoon” or “Good
Evening” depending upon time at which the user logs in.
	b)Write a shell script that accept a list of filenames as its argument, count and report occurrence of each word that is present in the first argument file on other argument files.

8	a)Write a shell script that determine the period for which a specified user is working on system and display appropriate message.
	b)Write a shell script that reports the logging in of a specified user within one minute after he/she log in. The script automatically terminate if specified user does not log in during a specified period of time.

9	a)Write a shell script that accept the file name, starting and ending line number as an argument and display all the
lines between the given line number.
	b) Write a shell script that folds long lines into 40 columns. Thus any line that exceeds 40 characters must be broken after 40th, a “\” is to be appended as the indication of folding and the processing is to be continued with the residue. The input is to be supplied through a text file created by the user.

10	a) Write an awk script that accepts date argument in the form of dd-mm-yy and displays it in the form if month, day and year. The script should check the validity of the argument and in the case of error, display a suitable
message.
	b) Write an awk script to delete duplicated line from a text file. The order of the original	lines must remain
unchanged.

11	a) Write an awk script to find out total number of books sold in each discipline as well as total book sold using associate array down table as given below.
Electrical	34
Mechanical	67
Electrical	80
Computer Science 43
Mechanical	65
Civil	98
Computer Science 64

b) Write an awk script to compute gross salary of an employee accordingl to rule given below.
If basic salary is < 10000 then HRA=15% of basic & DA=45% of basic
If basic salary is >=10000 then HRA=20% of basic & DA=50% of basic.


12)	Write a perl script to check the given number is prime or not.
